docs/connecting-lab.md: Add documentation how to add LAVA lab (#440)
kernelci/kernelci-pipeline: doc/connecting-lab.md

---
title: "Connecting LAVA Lab to the pipeline instance"
date: 2024-02-19
description: "Connecting a LAVA lab to the KernelCI pipeline"
weight: 2
---

As we are moving towards the new KernelCI API and pipeline, we need to make sure
all the existing LAVA labs are connected to the new pipeline instance.  This
document explains how to do this.

## Token setup

> The first step is to generate a token for the lab.  This is done by the lab admin,

Reviewer: There is an extra white space here:
```suggestion
The first step is to generate a token for the lab. This is done by the lab admin,
```

and the token is used to submit jobs from pipeline to the lab, and to authenticate
LAVA lab callbacks to the pipeline.
Requirements for the token:
- Description: a string matching the regular expression `[a-zA-Z0-9\-]+`, for example "kernelci-new-api-callback"
- Value: arbitrary, kept secret

## Pipeline configuration

### Secrets (toml) file

The next step is to add the token to the pipeline services configuration files.

> Secrets are stored in the `kernelci.secrets` section of the `kernelci.toml` file,

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused: should the token be placed in `kernelci.toml` under section:

```toml
[kernelci.secrets]
token=$token
```

or like described below? Please let me know where I could catch up with the most recent config structure if I'm missing well-known info that should be obvious to the reader.

Author: This whole story with section naming leaving me puzzled as well. I think kernelci.secrets is more relevant to kci cli tool and rework related to kernelci-core settings module. lava-callback doesn't use it, as it will be overkill for it (it should be lightweight as much as possible).
scheduler-lava doesn't use it too, so in this particular configuration for lava-callback i am using part of existed configuration scheme for scheduler-lava, and just added option for separate callback token (optional), or we can be reusing single token for both, requests and callback (this is what we did with lab-broonie).

Reviewer 2: ACK, let's leave `kernelci.secrets` out of the scope of this review.

and added manually by the KernelCI system administrators.  For example, the token

> can be added to the `runtime.lava-labname` section of the `services.toml` file:

Reviewer: It's worth mentioning that a new section should be created with every new lab with the syntax `runtime.<lava-lab-name>`. 
`< >` brackets in the sample section name help the user know to replace this value with the actual one.

> can be added to the `runtime.lava-labname` section of the `services.toml` file:

Reviewer: what is `services.toml`?
```suggestion
can be added to the `runtime.lava-labname` section of the `services.toml` file:
```

```toml

> [runtime.lava-labname]
> runtime_token="TOKEN-VALUE"

Reviewer: The same comment as above:
```suggestion
[runtime.<lava-lab-name>]
runtime_token="<lab-token>"
```

```

### docker-compose file

> You need to add lab name to the scheduler-lava service in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: Example seemed to be useful at first:

```suggestion
You need to add lab name to the scheduler-lava service in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

```yml
scheduler-lava:
    <<: *scheduler
    container_name: 'kernelci-pipeline-scheduler-lava'
    command:
      - './pipeline/scheduler.py'
      - '--settings=${KCI_SETTINGS:-/home/kernelci/config/kernelci.toml}'
      - 'loop'
      - '--runtimes'
      - 'lava-collabora'
      - 'lava-collabora-staging'
      - 'lava-broonie'
      - '$lava-brand-new'
```

but maybe just a link to a specific line in the `docker-compose.yml` should do the trick.

(snippet above is incomplete - missing ``` at the end because it confused GH markup)

Reviewer: I agree. A sample example or some description would be helpful.

> ### yaml pull request

Reviewer: Maybe consider using a more descriptive name such as `Update pipeline configuration` or something else?
```suggestion
### Update pipeline configuration
```

> The final step is to submit a pull request to the `kernelci-pipeline` repository

Reviewer 2: This is something that confused me for quite some time: should we really keep the whole config in the `pipeline` repo just to duplicate it again in the `deploy` one?

Wouldn't it be more straightforward to keep minimal working config here (maybe something allowing just the local setup, evaluation environment so to speak) and move the specifics to a single place?

Author: The same questions bothers me too, whole situation is not healthy:
1)We have production configs included in kernelci-core AND api AND pipeline
2)On staging we apply patches stored in kernelci-deploy, to convert it to "staging" configs

Every time we update production more or less significantly, it breaks those patches.
So for long term, **i think we need to open issue about config storage/management**. IMHO staging, production configs should be stored in deploy in separate directories, and software distributions, like you said, have minimal working config, friendly for those who want to try software.

Reviewer 2: Opened https://github.com/kernelci/kernelci-pipeline/issues/470

> The final step is to submit a pull request to the `kernelci-pipeline` repository

Reviewer: I guess we should also mention here that the pipeline uses `config/pipeline.yaml` (and a link to the file) for configurations before describing about sending in a PR.

to add the lab configuration to the yaml file.
For example, see the following [pull request](https://github.com/kernelci/kernelci-pipeline/pull/426).

In details the pull request should add a new entry to the `runtimes` section of the configuration file:

```yaml

  lava-broonie:
    lab_type: lava
    url: 'https://lava.sirena.org.uk/'
    priority_min: 10
    priority_max: 40
    notify:
      callback:
        token: kernelci-new-api-callback
        url: https://staging.kernelci.org:9100

```

> Where `lava-broonie` is the name of the lab, `lava` is the type of the lab, `url` is the URL of the lab, `priority_min` and `priority_max` are the priority range allowed to jobs, assigned by lab owner, and `notify` is the notification configuration for the lab.  The `callback` section contains the token and the URL of the pipeline instance LAVA callback endpoint.

Reviewer 2: Is the name of the lab used only here, in scheduler-lava configuration and secrets (token)? Might be useful to explicitly state which values have to match.

Also: token **name** used by LAVA (a link to the upstream docs on how it works will be useful, I'll look it up and add a review comment later - ping me if I don't)

Reviewer 2: https://docs.lavasoftware.org/lava/user-notifications.html#notification-callbacks

> Where `lava-broonie` is the name of the lab, `lava` is the type of the lab, `url` is the URL of the lab, `priority_min` and `priority_max` are the priority range allowed to jobs, assigned by lab owner, and `notify` is the notification configuration for the lab.  The `callback` section contains the token and the URL of the pipeline instance LAVA callback endpoint.

Reviewer: Instead of describing each field like this, the below section seems more readable to me:
```suggestion
  <lava-lab-name>:
    lab_type: lava
    url: '<url-to-the-lab>'
    priority_min: <min-priority-range>
    priority_max: <max-priority-range>
    notify:
      callback:
        token: <lab-token>
        url: <pipeline-lava-callback-url>
```
This can be followed by an example as you have already mentioned:
```
lava-broonie:
    lab_type: lava
    url: 'https://lava.sirena.org.uk/'
    priority_min: 10
    priority_max: 40
    notify:
      callback:
        token: kernelci-new-api-callback
        url: https://staging.kernelci.org:9100
```

Author: people get confused with brackets only example, they might add for example  `priority_min: <10>`, this is why i give real examples

Reviewer: No, we should keep the example as it is just the way you have mentioned. I was suggesting to change the description of the example.

### Jobs and devices specific to the lab

> For testing it is better to add separate job and device type specific to the lab.  For example, the following yaml file adds a job and a device type for the `lava-broonie` lab:

Reviewer: Should we also add a line here to describe what is `jobs` and `device-types` sections of config file?

Reviewer: That's true. Bdw this guide has a section for adding jobs and devices. That's why adding just an oneliner would help the user to understand better.

```yaml
jobs:
  baseline-arm64-broonie: *baseline-job

device_types:

  sun50i-h5-libretech-all-h3-cc:
    <<: *arm64-device
    mach: allwinner
    dtb: dtbs/allwinner/sun50i-h5-libretech-all-h3-cc.dtb

scheduler:

  - job: baseline-arm64-broonie
    event:
      channel: node
      name: kbuild-gcc-10-arm64
      result: pass
    runtime:
      type: lava
      name: lava-broonie
    platforms:
      - sun50i-h5-libretech-all-h3-cc
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if the last section is required in this guide.

Reviewer: I agree. This section can be removed.
